+++
title = "Insulin resistance correlates with maculopathy and severity of retinopathy in young adults with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus"
date = "2017-05-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
# and Stacey, Fiona G. and Brown, Wendy J. and Holliday, Elizabeth G. and Jones, Mark and Yang, Fan and Hespe, Charlotte and Plotnikoff, Ronald C.
authors = ["Rowe, C.W.","Haider, A.S.","Viswanathan, D.","**Jones, Mark**","Attia, John R","Wynne, K.","Acharya, S."]




# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Diabetes Research and Clinical Practice"
publication_short = "Diabetes Res Clin Pract."

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "AIMS:To assess the relationship between insulin resistance (IR), retinopathy and maculopathy in young adults with Type 1 diabetes mellitus.METHODS:A cross-sectional study at a regional Australian tertiary hospital. Retinal pathology, assessed by colour fundus photography, was correlated with two surrogate measures of IR: estimated Glucose Disposal Rate (eGDR) and Insulin Sensitivity Score (ISS), where lower scores reflect greater IR.RESULTS:107 patients were recruited, with mean age 24.7years, 53% male, and mean duration of disease 10.8years. Mean eGDR scores (5.6vs 8.0 p<0.001) and ISS (4.7vs 7.9, p<0.001) were lower in subjects having at least moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR; relative to nil/mild-NPDR). Similarly, mean eGDR (4.2vs 6.2, p=0.001) and ISS (3.8vs 6.1, p=0.003) were lower in patients with maculopathy. Multivariate logistic regression modelling was used to control for confounding. For retinopathy severity, a unit increase in eGDR or ISS (representing lower IR) was associated with a 50% decrease in odds of moderate-NPDR or worse (eGDR OR 0.5, 95%CI 0.32-0.77, p=0.002; ISS OR 0.49, 95%CI 0.29-0.84, p=0.01). A unit increase in eGDR or ISS was associated with a 46-56% decrease in odds of maculopathy (eGDR OR 0.54, 95%CI 0.37-0.81, p=0.003; ISS OR 0.44, 95%CI 0.22-0.88, p=0.02).CONCLUSIONS:IR correlates with more severe retinopathy in young adults with Type 1DM. This is the first description of a correlation between IR and maculopathy in Type 1DM, warranting further evaluation. Prospective studies examining whether reducing IR can improve microvascular complications are required."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28750218"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

<!-- More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code. -->
